# About the GDCC

The vision is that the Global Dataverse Community Consortium (GDCC) will provide international organization to existing community efforts and will provide a collaborative venue for institutions to leverage economies of scale in support of Dataverse repositories around the world. It is our intention that the consortium be community driven and ultimately the goals to be defined by the participants. But recent developments around the need to migrate Digital Object Identifiers and the urgency for several members to join DataCite has accelerated this development and we are happy to say it is going great. While we are eager to begin this important effort, we also recognize that for a global activity of this scale to succeed it will take dedicated planning in year one to make the effort sustainable and to manage expectations.

We are pleased to announce that three long standing community members have agreed to serve on the initial “pilot phase” oversight committee to begin our journey. Mercè Crosas from the Institute for Quantitative Social Science at Harvard University, Peter Doorn from Data Archiving and Networked Services (DANS) in the Netherlands, and Jonathan Crabtree from Odum Institute at the University of North Carolina have agreed to form the oversight board for the first year until a light-weight governance structure can be decided on by the first-year members. These initial members will be considered Phase One members and will have the opportunity to help build our new consortium. Our initial thought is that we will form teams from these inaugural institutions to tackle our list of goals.

# Vision Statement

The vision for the Global Dataverse Community Consortium (GDCC) is to provide international organization to existing community efforts and provide collaborative venues for institutions to leverage economies of scale in support of Dataverse repositories around the world. It is our intention that the consortium be community driven and ultimately the goals to be defined by the participants. We believe that promoting open and inclusive practices, formed in a transparent environment builds strong partnership among our members as well as with our external partner organizations. We encourage membership from organizations both large and small from diverse communities all around the globe. 
